---
aliases:
  - Apothecary
  - Necromancer
  - Healing Magic
  - Necromancy
---
## Who are they:
Apothecaries are the holy healers of the Known World. Blessed with healing magics and able to ward the souls of the dead for their journey to the Undying Lands, they maintain their immensely important duties with a quiet dignity. Almost every [[human]] settlement contains a sacred structure called a sanctum, from which the apothecaries carry out their divine work.   

Healing magic was first developed during the [[3rd Age|First Demonic War]]. Mortals blessed with the ability to heal the wounded were - unsurprisingly - highly prised and protected by their kin. Together with the guardian races, the first apothecaries were able to develop protective incantations - to keep the souls of the fallen safe from the ever-hungry demons. They established a stronghold on the shores of Cradle Lake and named it Apothecarium Citadel. From here, they were able to maintain a healthy population of warriors the likes of which had never been possible before. The defence they mounted from this site was so strong that it would last the entire war - the walls of the citadel having never once been breached by the previously unstoppable demonic hordes. But, when the war was finally won the sacred duties of apothecaries did not end. They continued the practices they had learned knowing that, should they fail in their duties, the demons would surely return.  
Caring not for riches or glory, most members of this sect wear simple, woven straw twine robes with matching rope belts. These belts usually hold poaches containing healing herbs, ointments, and salves. Only battle priests tend to wear armour or additional protection over their robes.  
Some apothecaries travel the land in search of those who need aid, whilst others spend their entire lives working in a single sanctum. Regardless of their focus, all apothecaries work primarily on the healing of the body and soul. They are skilled at all manner of medical practices from mending simple cuts and bruises, to performing complex surgeries. Those who work within a sanctum will also assist in childbirth and - perhaps most importantly - oversee funeral rites. The bodies of the dead in their care are magically cremated, and their souls are commended to the Immortal Realm and warded against attacks from demons that may have otherwise harvested them as they cross the void.  
All magically gifted creatures live longer than the rest of their kind, but being blessed with healing magics means apothecaries age far slower than their peers. It is common for them to oversee the birth and funeral of the same person, and an apothecary who has seen several generations of their kin come and go may still appear to be a young adult. However, this gift can become a burden, as experiencing mortality and its unending cycle of life and death can prove extremely difficult for those who are charged with healing and caring for people.  
## Organisation:
Young Apothecaries learn their craft through constant and lengthy practice, tending to menial tasks under the supervision of their superiors for many years. Gradually they learn how to treat wounds and heal the sick, eventually moving on to birthing rites, and finally funeral rites.  
Battle priests take to the fields of war to tend to the injured and dying. How they carry out this duty is down to the individual’s own views, with some treating the wounded on both sides, whilst others remain loyal to a cause and may even take up arms and fight to protect their comrades.  
In some cultures, sanctums are places of worship devoted to the Immortals, but all are equipped for healing the sick. Though the design of each sanctum may vary, all are built with two main towers. The eastern tower is set up to handle childbirth and is where expecting mothers go when they are in labour. The western tower is equipped for funeral rites, and includes stone slabs for preparing bodies and pyres for cremating the body and sanctifying the soul for its journey to the Undying Lands.  
## Naming:
Apothecaries continue to use their birth names and are referred to by outsiders and those within their order as brothers and sisters.  
## Dark Path - Necromancer:
Those who use their powers to prolong life unnaturally, or who spread disease and death are branded as Necromancers. It is truly a tragic fall for any who stray so far, but perhaps an understandable one. Living long lives and seeing so many come and go is not something to be taken lightly. The most famous to tread this path is of course brother apothecary [[Gordio]] who, whilst attempting to save his friends and loved ones from a terrible epidemic, accidentally created the Plague of Undeath.  
## Magic:
Healing magic takes two major forms. The first and more simplistic is the practical application of chemistry and biology. Herbal remedies, anti-venoms, draughts, and potions all fall under this category, and though non-apothecaries can learn how to use these treatments, living extended lives allows apothecaries to perfect these techniques. The second and more obvious is wielding the mysterious healing energies that leak into our reality from the Immortal Plane. Often referred to as the Light - due to its gold or silver colouration - this magic is the manifestation of the blessings apothecaries have received, and it allows them to perform magnificent feats of healing such as setting bones and closing grievous wounds in a matter of seconds. Most importantly, this magic enables the warding of souls so that they may find safe passage to the Undying Lands.  
Standard alchemy and herbology look identical whether performed by an apothecary or without magic. Healing spells are usually applied with the wielder's hands placed gently over the wounded area, but more powerful spells can involve the user adopting some form of prayer stance to affect a wider area. Within a sanctum, candles and herbal incense are often burned, filling the air with perfumed and pungent smoke. Even without this, it is often noted that healing magic removes the smells associated with disease and death.  
Apothecaries describe their magic as being soothing and calming, though it is not unheard of for healers to feel the pain they draw out of the sick and wounded. Those who tap into more unnatural methods of restoration tend to create magic and potions with a sickly green colour and a foul miasma.  Healing magic is both spiritually and emotionally taxing for the user.  
## Standard D&D Background:
Apothecaries that learned healing magic in a sanctum have proficiency with the Herbalist’s kit. Acolyte is a good background choice.