---
aliases:
  - Beastwalker
  - Harpy
  - Harpies
---
## Who are they:
Beast walkers are blessed with a natural affinity to understand and commune with animals. They are often loners or hermits, never quite fitting in with society and preferring the old ways or the solitude of nature. For many, this is as far as their powers develop. But, there are some who are able to harness powerful animal spirits and shapeshift into beast forms.   

Beast walkers are the most recently recognised sect of magic wielders. Unlike the other sects, the power of bestial magic was not discovered by mortals during the [[3rd Age - Turmoil|First Demonic War]]. This is because the majority of their abilities are subtle, and the process that allows them to take on the forms of beasts they slay has only recently become known. In the latter years of the [[4th Age - Revival|4th Age]], a youth named Harland was attacked by a great wolf. Miraculously, he was able to defeat the beast with only his bare hand. Unbeknownst to him, both the wolf’s spirit and his own were enriched with nature magic, and so when he triumphed over the beast, Harland took a portion of the wolf’s soul into his own. He would later learn from the Herdeer - the demigod guardians of nature - that this process of ritual combat is an old and forgotten magic. From that day forward, Harland was able to shapeshift into the form of his fallen adversary.  
Though he had become the first mortal beast walker, his journey was filled with personal loss. He had also learned that prolonged time spent in his wild form would eventually cost him his sanity. Not wanting these horrors to befall anyone else, the now-named Howland Whitefang set out to find others like him and teach them what he had learned. Over many years, he established a flock that continued to spread the practice of bestial magic. And so, beast walking came to be known across the world.  
## Organisation:
There is no single organisation of beast walkers. Most are loners by nature and continue to be so after their first transformational rebirth. Being close to animals and wild beasts, many choose to remain in the wild and protect the lands they call home. Some even act as matriarchs or patriarchs to the groups of animals they feel the closest bond to (though it is not possible for a beast walker to mate with animals). A few more social individuals have joined together to form packs, travelling the world to find and teach others of their kind. There are those who do live in and around society, though their wild nature can often lead to fear and misunderstanding from their original kin.  
Howland Whitefang did establish a shelter for his kind deep in the hills of Wildwood, at the very site where he learned from the Herdeer. Known as the Den, this refuge is a safe space for any beast walker in need. It is a great cave under an ancient and weathered oak tree. Howland resides there most of the time, teaching those who come from across the Known World about their newly developed powers.  
## Naming:
Beast walkers rename themselves during their rebirth. Generally, this name is to honour the spirit of the first animal they defeated in ritual combat.  
## Dark Path - Harpies:
Staying in animal form for too long can lead to a beast walker losing their humanity and reverting to an animalistic state driven by instinct and rage. These creatures are branded as Harpies. Some beast walkers frown upon those who actively seek out new beast forms, whilst others believe that to overcome many great beasts is to assert their status as an alpha, so that they may continue to guide and lead others.  
## Magic:
For most of recorded history, it was assumed that nature magic fell somewhere under the umbrellas of arcane and elemental magic. We know that living spirits collect energy in the form of memories and life experiences and that this is what constitutes our immortal souls. This is not only true for sentient beings, but also for beasts and plants great and small across the Known World. Even without arcane influences, this collective energy is inherently magical. The way the tallest trees can grow from a tiny seed; the way a fish can navigate back to the spawning pools from whence it hatched; the way a [[human]] will find a newborn animal to be adorable. All living things in this world are fundamentally linked through this natural magic.  
A beast walker is simply more in tune with this energy and can bind powerful collections of it into their own being. When mana rained down upon the Known World and allowed some races to wield magic, it also infused into wild beasts. These creatures tend to be larger, tougher, and smarter than their kin. Where such social structures are the norm, they will usually be leaders of herds and packs. Other times, they will become apex predators or long-lived beasts of myth and legend. However, a beast walker can absorb the spirit of these magical beasts into their own by defeating them in ritual combat. These contests are done as nature intended - that is to say, the beast walker can only use the tools that nature gave them. They fight these magically enhanced beasts without any crafted weapons or armour, using only their wits, strength, and speed. If triumphant, their souls will merge and the beast walker may then transform themselves and take the form of the slain creature. This then lends itself to a natural progression - in subsequent rituals they may shapeshift into a previously acquired form, thus allowing them to overcome tougher challenges.  
When a beast walker transforms, their bodies glow a brilliant and blinding white. Their silhouette will then shift and rearrange, and when the light dims they appear in the form of an animal. Beast walkers describe this change as a surge of emotions and instincts coursing through their veins. The spirit of the creature remains powerful and potent - and even when not transformed can influence the mood and temperament of the beast walker. When shapeshifted for too long, their mind can begin to lose control of itself, as the instincts of the beast within start to take over. However, this very risk is what makes beast walker transformations far more powerful than any arcane or elemental shapeshifting. Though [[mages]] have long been able to take the forms of animals for short periods of time, their movements and abilities when transformed are often clumsy and limited. On the other hand, the spirits of the beast walker and the animals they turn into are as one, affording them the strength, agility, and cunning of these creatures as if it was their own.   Bestial magic is both emotionally and physically taxing for the user.  
## Standard D&D Background:
Characters should start with at least one animal form, following the normal restrictions of their class, and ideally of a beast from their home biome. Hermit or Outlander are good choices for character background.