---
aliases:
  - Demon Hunter
  - Warlock
---
## Who are they:
Demon hunters are fierce warriors, blessed with powers from the sun, who travel the Known World to root out demons wherever they may hide. They are the bulwark against the darkness; radiant knights of hope and order against the chaos.   

Like most of the other sects, demonology magic originated in the darkness of the [[3rd Age|First Demonic War]]. Across the battlefields and besieged early settlements, when all hope seemed lost, individuals would step forward and lead their people against the hordes of nether spawn. Naturally charismatic, strong, and fueled by burning and righteous fury, these commanders would soon come to understand that their strength came not just from within, but also from the sun. Even in the dreaded darkness of the night, when the demons of the void sought to worm their way into the minds of mortals, these heroes found that they could call forth the brightness of daylight to drive back the horrors and fiends.  
After the war, these leaders would join together to form a sacred order of demon hunters, tasking all who would follow in their footsteps to destroy evil wherever it still festered. Choosing the scorched Red Sands desert as the site of their headquarters, the demon hunters erected a great tower called Eastsun. Atop its peak, they fitted a large silicon crystal that focuses solar heat down into a forge. The metal smelted with this power takes on a golden light, blessing it with the holy power of the sun and giving the weapons and armour it is forged into their instantly recognisable pyritic colouration.  
To this day, demon hunters are highly respected warriors and metalworkers, travelling the world in search of the corruption of demons. However, despite their skills and protections, their task is incredibly dangerous - it is rare for a demon hunter to reach old age. It is also a task that, of late, has become a thankless one. More often than not, demon hunters are seen as paranoid fearmongers. They are sometimes even the focus of superstition, as whispers circulate that the arrival of a demon hunter heralds an approaching doom.  
## Organisation:
Eastsun lies within the Northern Kingdom, and all demon hunters are recognised officially as knights. Young demon hunters who join the order are assigned to squire for an experienced demon hunter until they prove themselves, at which point they will be knighted by their master. Those who are found to be better suited to labour rather than combat are enrolled as apprentice sun-smiths which, though less prestigious, is no less respected by the order. When operating outside of Eastsun demon hunters mostly work alone. But, inside their holy grounds each knight is attended by a retinue of servants. These servants look after their weapons and armour when not in use, anointing them with holy oils. They also dress the demon hunter and will shadow their master around Eastsun, shrouding them in incense and acting as scribes and dogsbodies.  
Despite being in the middle of the desert, Eastsun is a veritable paradise with amenities unseen in most parts of the world. The underground barracks are spacious and comfortable, complete with hot baths and lavish lounges. Only the best food and drink is available, and demon hunters rarely want for anything. This respite serves as a metaphor for the calm and warming embrace of the sun and is a reminder of the fruits of the hard-fought peace that the demon hunters strive to maintain. 

As a knightly order, they of course swear an oath upon their ascension:
- **Embrace the light.** _In all things, care for and protect those who hold good and honest lives._
- **And be its beacon.** _Be as the sun - a radiant and shining example of virtue and purity._
- **Against the night.** _Stand firm against the wicked, the heretic, and the demon._
## Naming:
As members of an order of knights of the Northern Kingdom each demon hunter is titled either Sir or Dame.  
## Dark Path - Warlocks:
Demon hunters who fall under the corrupting influence of the void, or who seek to control, enslave, or even wield demons as weapons lose their knighthood and are excommunicated as Warlocks. There are those who will claim they keep and study demons in order to better understand the workings of the nether or to use the demon's own powers against them. Regardless, the kind of mind that would go down this path is almost always an unhinged one.  
## Magic:
The soothing, warm embrace of the sun is not just a source of comfort and energy, it is a magical conduit of holy power. For reasons we don’t fully understand, the demonic forces are more vulnerable during the day, and so baulk under the concentrated solar might that demon hunters are able to wield. Being the most martial of all the magical sects, demon hunters forge weapons and armour from metals that are smelted and enchanted by the sun. These items take on a golden pyrite colouration that ever so slightly glows, and allows their wielders to better channel magic in combat.  
When summoning the power locked within themselves and their wargear, demon hunters are able to cast spells and smites that shine with a golden radiance. Depending on the proximity, this can feel like anything from a gentle glow to a searing heat. This radiant energy is felt at all times within the demon hunter, burning with a fire that fuels their muscles and stokes their natural charisma.   Demon magic is both spiritually and psychologically taxing for the user.  
#### Standard D&D Background:
All Demon Hunters are proficient with martial weapons and some may use Smith’s tools. The Knight or Haunted One backgrounds are the most obvious choices for a demon hunter.