---
aliases:
  - Elementalist
  - Shaman
  - Farseer
  - Long Walker
---
## Who are they:
Elementalists are protectors of the elements and nature. They are a highly spiritual group and do not all fall under an official order or organisation. Some stay linked with the settlement of their birth, but others follow the call of the elements and travel the world, seeking to heal the land and restore balance.   

The term elementalist applies to any individual who has a strong connection to the elements, can commune with them, and can call upon their powers. This means that - unlike the other sects - you are likely to find an elementalist in every single culture around the Known World, even in the most remote settlements.  
When the power of the Elemental Lords waned during the [[3rd Age|First Demonic War]], their minions were no longer held in check. The balance of nature was forever altered, and natural disasters began disrupting societies all over the world. Those who manifested a magical affinity with the elements rose up to take on the burden of maintaining the peace. Some may call upon the elements themselves to bring rain in times of drought, or the calm the skies and seas when a storm threatens a ship. Others work in more simplistic ways - stoking the fires and preparing restorative broths for their people during the dark of winter.  
But, sometimes it is not the elements that induce destruction; the mortal races are just as capable of causing disaster and devastation. Therefore, the role of an elementalist is not only to protect their kin from nature but also to defend nature from those who would seek to harm or exploit it. Most see this as a balance to be maintained, believing that the Elemental Lords - in their wisdom - created natural resources to aid the children of the world. A city may quarry for stone and chop down trees for timber, so long as they respect the source of these materials and are not wasteful.  
Some elementalists live with their people and guide them with their wisdom and with the visions they receive from the spirits and ancestors. Others follow a nomadic lifestyle and are guided by the elements to wherever they are needed. Groups who follow the ways of the elements tend to practice funeral burials or cremation, returning the bodies of their dead back to the elements.  
## Organisation:
The organisational structure of elementalists is hard to define - given that some are vitally linked to the culture of their people, and others travel the world as healers and spiritualistic hermits. However, some practices are shared across the Known World. For instance, many adolescents who begin to manifest elemental powers are sent on a pilgrimage to the Smokey Mountain. This site is holy to the elementalists, and any who reach it are taught the ways of their order by a group of elderly hermits who reside there. Upon starting this pilgrimage, initiates are given a rune shield - typically made from stone or wood. These slab-like shields are tremendously heavy, and only a proven elementalist who is at one with nature can hope to use them effectively. When sent on their journey a young elementalist will initially be bogged down by carrying such a burden, and it will prove deadly to any who cannot attune to the elements on their journey. By the time they reach the volcanic mountain, they will have formed a connection to the shield and will be able to wield it as if it were an extension of their body. Runes are inscribed onto an elementalist’s shield to mark their achievements and deeds. These have the added effect of acting as protective enchantments on the shield, making it all but unbreakable.  
Elementalists tend to fall into two broad groups: those who are more spiritual, and those who learn to wield their power through weapons. Spiritual elementalists are known as shaman, long walkers, or farseers, whereas martial elementalists are titled based on their preferred element - such as wind caller, earth warden, water dancer, and fire weaver. It is not uncommon for nomadic elementalists to travel in pairs - one martial-focused, and the other a long walker. Such is the elementalist tendency to seek balance.  
## Naming:
Elementalists keep only their first names but gain a title depending on their chosen path.  
## Dark Path:
Elementalists that force the elements to their will are branded earth breaker, fire fiend, water tempestor, and wind stormer. The difference between calling and forcing elements may be subtle to outsiders, but within the sect it is easy to tell. Those who cause the elements pain, enslave spirits or minions to their will, or disgrace themselves in the eyes of the ancestors are without exception cast out of the order or killed.  
## Magic:
Elemental magic is an omnipresent force in the Known World. Everything came from the elements and so all things carry an innate resonance with the spirits of earth, water, air, and fire. Elementalists are able to hear these spirits and interpret the will of the elements. They can also call upon this force to aid them and, should the elements oblige, the result is elemental spellcasting. Wielding elemental magic takes a great many forms, and can even vary between cultures. Some pray to the spirits with arms outstretched to the heavens, whilst others conjure the elements through the fluid movements of the weapons they carry. Regardless, all elemental spell effects have their natural physical properties. Some describe the spirits as soothing voices or a chorus of singing ancestors, whilst others interpret the sensation as raw emotions coursing through their bodies. To bend the elements to one’s will is to feel an unparalleled and titanic power akin to godhood.   Elemental magic is both spiritually and physically taxing for the user.  
## Standard D&D Background:
Characters who made the elementalist’s pilgrimage to the Smokey Mountain should start with proficiency with shields. Hermit or Outlander are good choices for character background.