*The Kal Krom are a territorial, tribal people who have dwelled in the forested foothills and mountains of the Belt since ancient times.*  

Kal Krom are large, muscular humanoids with heavy brows and protruding jaws. Even in their adolescence, they tend to stand taller than most adults of the other sentient races. Despite appearances, the kal krom are generally not brutish or warlike. Instead, they maintain well-defined territories in their home province of Krom Thrak, where they live mostly as hunter-gatherers. However, this peaceful nature is not to be taken for granted. On the few occasions when outsiders have threatened to expand into Krom Thrak and upset the well-maintained balance, the kal krom hastily put aside their differences and assemble into a great warband. Fortunately, once the threat is dealt with than the kal krom lay down their weapons and return to their homes. Of the strange and unusual kal krom who venture out into the world, their stature alone is enough to turn heads, let alone their prowess in the theatres of war and diplomacy.
## Kal Krom Culture and Naming
The people of Krom Thrak are organised into territories, each controlled by a single tribe. Each tribe contains three leaders: the chief, elder [[Elementalists|shaman]], and ko taro. The chief is the diplomatic head of the tribe. Often an experienced elder who has led many hunts or sired or birthed many children, the chief is universally respected within the tribe and often by members of other tribes as well. New chiefs are elected into position by popular vote, and will usually remain chief until their death. The elder [[Elementalists|shaman]] is the spiritual leader of the tribe and will act as an advisor to the chief, and as a seer, healer, and overseer of birthing and funeral rights. They also teach their magics and the tribe’s history and lore to any elementally gifted students. The [[Elementalists|shaman]] of the tribe are usually ranked in seniority by age. Finally, the ko taro is the lead warrior of the tribe. Every kal krom tribe contains a single ko taro and their apprentice. They practice a non-lethal form of combat used in sparring matches, centred around disarming the opponent and forcing them to yield. To outsiders, these duels appear more akin to a dance, as the combatants move fluidly and with graceful footwork. Despite their size and strength, kal krom resolve most of their intertribal disputes diplomatically. Any issues that cannot be resolved this way are instead handled in ritual combat between the tribe’s ko taro. When a ko taro is victorious, that is the final word in the ongoing dispute.  
The kal krom are very close to nature and give reverence to the spirits of the mountains. Each tribe usually contains a conclave of [[Elementalists|shaman]]. A tribe’s dead are wrapped in shrouds and buried on sacred ground so that their spirits and bodies are returned to the elements. Living in the mountains and forested foothills means the kal krom look to the elements to provide for all their needs. They fish in the mountain streams, hunt game, and collect berries and nuts from the forests. Their [[Elementalists|shaman]] are usually adept herbalists and can cure many ailments with the natural reagents found in their lands.  
Whenever adventurous kal krom leave their ancestral home to explore the world, they often find they are looked upon with fear and hostility, turning heads wherever they go. But people soon find their concerns erased when they discover the mirth and good humour that a kal krom can display when sat around a fire with an oversized flagon of ale.   
#### Naming:
Kal Krom follow a naming pattern of Ka followed by a birth name for males, or Ga followed by a birth name for females is used by all kal krom. Individuals can gain titles through chiefdom, farseeing, or becoming a Ko Taro: *e.g. Ka Roto the bloody, Ga Jaka rain dancer.*
## Kal Krom D&D Traits
**Size:** Small Medium (about 7-8 feet tall).
**Speed:** 35 feet.
**Life Span:** Kal Krom have lifespans comparable to humans. They enter adulthood and in their late teens and non-magical individuals usually live less than a century.

As a Kal Krom, you have these special traits.
_**Mountain Born.**_ You have resistance to cold damage. You’re also acclimated to high altitude, including elevations above 20,000 feet.
_**Powerful Build.**_ You have Advantage on any Saving Throw you make to end the Grappled condition on yourself. You also count as one Size larger when determining your carrying capacity and the weight you can push, drag, or lift.
_**Fortified Endurance.**_ You can focus yourself to occasionally shrug off injury. When you take damage, you can use your reaction to roll a d12. Add your Constitution modifier to the number rolled and reduce the damage by that total. After you use this trait, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or long rest.
_**Natural Athlete.**_ You have proficiency in either the Athletics or Acrobatics skill.

When designing a kal krom you may increase one of your ability scores by 2 and another by 1.