*The olmetek are a tribal people that live in the hostile environs of the Razorvine Jungle.*  

Olmetek are a species of humanoids that reside in the tropical and dangerous Razorvine Jungle. The subcontinent is full of biting insects, crippling diseases, and vicious predators. To survive here, a species has to overcome many challenges. This environment has caused the olmetek to evolve a number of traits that set them apart from their other humanoid cousins.
Most individuals are tall and lean, have clawed hands and feet, small tusks, and green-grey skin that is often mottled with various flesh tones.
All olmetek are hairless, but they do grow thick keratin spines on their heads which form a plumage that is similar to the head hair of other humanoids. For females, these spines are usually brown or black, but male spines are always brightly coloured.
Although they have the same number of digits as humans, olmetek have two thumbs and three fingers - similar to the hands of koalas. This gives them a powerful grip for scaling trees and cliffs which, when combined with the prevalence of jungle floor predators and frequent floods, has led to most olmetek settlements being constructed off the ground. Dwellings are built in the boughs of thick tree clusters or on ledges and escarpments on cliffs, and are connected by vine bridges or wooden walkways.
Unlike humans who wall themselves off into towns and cities, the olmetek's way of life creates a strong affinity with nature. Not content with simply defending themselves from the flora and fauna, they have themselves become the masters of their surroundings. After all, nature will quickly cull any olmetek that cannot best the many deadly perils they face on a daily basis. 

## Olmetek Cultures and Naming
In most tribes, olmetek offspring are taken from their parents to a place deep in the middle of the jungle called Darkcrag Hollow. There, infants are raised by the Blood Coven - an all-female group of elder mystics and sages. The coven are ritualistically blinded during their initiation, yet they see everything. They teach the olmetek children the traditions of their people, and instruct them in many skills from hunting and gathering, to combat and blood magic. During this time, the coven also imparts prophecies and wisdom onto the young. When an adolescent has learned all they can, the coven decides which tribe they will be assigned to - a decision which is often based on foresight. This centralised upbringing and controlled allocation of their population is at least partially responsible for the success of the olmetek within their deadly jungle home.
The prophecies of the Blood Coven creates a strong belief in destiny for many olmetek that tends to make them very self-assured. Some predictions may even involve the timing and nature of one’s death, making the individual feel almost invincible in the intervening time.
However, the olmetek system for raising their young is prone to corruption. If an olmetek develops a strong magical affinity during menopause, they become a member of the Blood Coven. This means they have lived most of their life as a member of a tribe. It is not unheard of for coven members from ambitious tribes to hold onto their previous affiliations. This corruption can lead to their original tribe gaining an advantage over the others. Throughout their history, this has resulted in cycles of power struggles and wars of conquest. This is further exacerbated by the fact that most olmetek are naturally charismatic - their self-assuredness giving them great confidence when practising politics both internally, and with any other culture they may encounter.  

Rather than believing in the Immortals or Elemental Lords, the olmetek's affiliation with nature has caused them to assemble a pantheon of animal gods as their divine protectors. Each tribe tends to hold one beast sacred above all others, drawing their culture and practices from the animal’s behaviour. They also favour their chosen god’s ‘children’, with some tribes taming the beasts as pets whilst others kill them in ritual hunts. It is not uncommon for the hides, furs, or feathers of these animals to be used as decorations and adornments. Warriors may also wear war paint designed to mimic the appearance or camouflage patterns of their beast god. The strong kinship the olmetek form within their tribe, the kill-or-be-killed nature of their home, and their devotion to one god above all others is what often leads to animosity between tribes.  

The olmetek are the only prime species to practice blood magic on a large scale. Blood is a potent source of mana, but most see its use in spellcrafting as distasteful at best, and illegal at worst. But, the olmetek make no such qualms. In some tribes, the blood is simply acquired from slain beasts - often the ‘children’ of their patron god. But ritual sacrifices of their own species is not uncommon, usually involving the captured members of rival tribes or tributes from conquered ones. A few tribes even see the role of sacrifice as an honour, and gladly give their lives to appease their god and bring good fortune to their kin.

#### Naming:
When olmetek infants arrive in Darkcrag Hollow they do so without a name. Instead, a name is gained once their individual behaviours and traits set them apart from others, whilst some receive names specifically from visions and prophecies seen by the Blood Coven. A name is therefore used to describe who an olmetek is destined to become or what they embody, and so takes forms such as Man Killer, Wise Leader, and Fierce Carnotaur when translated into the common tongue.

#### Olmetek Adventurers:
Those olmetek found outside of the Razorvine Jungle are usually looked upon with curiosity and fear. They can sometimes be outcasts or oddities - thrown out into the world when they were unable to fit in with their tribe. Others are those who have come into contact with other cultures directly, most notably when taken as slaves by the people of Olivencia.

## Olmetek D&D Traits
**Size:** Medium (ranging from 5-7 feet tall).
**Speed:** 30 feet.
**Life Span:** Olmetek age at the same rate humans, though the harsh jungle makes it much harder to reach old age.

As an Olmetek, you have these special traits:

_**Expert Climber**_. Because of your claws, you have a climbing speed of 20 feet. In addition, your claws are natural weapons, which you can use to make Unarmed Strikes. Once per turn when you deal damage with your Unarmed Strike to a target, you can increase the damage to that target by an amount equal to your Proficiency Bonus.  
_**Born Hunter.**_ Growing up in a deadly jungle has taught you how to see without being seen. You have proficiency in the Perception and Stealth skills.  
_**Blood Magic.**_ You can innately channel minor magic by drawing small amounts of your own blood. You know one Transmutation cantrip. Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spellcasting ability for any Spell you cast with this trait (choose the ability when you select the Species).

When designing an olmetek you may increase one of your ability scores by 2 and another by 1.