*The Bortusken are a recently discovered species of boar-like humanoids who come from the underground city known as Stalacforge.*  

Appearing sometime during the 2nd Age in the region of Elencern known today as the Savage Hills, there exists an aberrant species of short upright-walking pig men. With the opening of the demonic rift Netherstorm during the First Demonic War, void energies corrupted these once mild-tempered creatures and turned them into the barbaric and twisted beings we now know today as the Swinious. However, it has recently come to light that a small group of their ancestors fled the demons and remained uncorrupted. They searched for sanctuary, heading into the mountains of the High Peaks until they found a vast cave deep under the tallest mountain. This cavern contained large reserves of mana crystals, which greatly enhanced the creature’s intelligence. Over time, these primitive pig men developed into a sophisticated society and became the bortusken. They are short, have fur in shades of grey and brown, and the males grow tusks that get longer as they age. They are arguably more intelligent than the other prime species, boasting a strong population of inventors, engineers, and scientists who have developed many marvellous creations over the centuries. For most of their history, this has benefitted only themselves. But when fate saw fit to intervene, the wider world became aware of the bortusken, Stalacforge, and the industrial inventions within. This discovery has had drastic consequences for the wider world - consequences that the enterprising bortusken were only too happy to profit from.
## Bortusken Culture and Naming
Stalacforge - the home of the bortusken for many centuries - is a vast cavern. Its depths delve far below the roots of the mountains and the upper reaches sit just below the tallest peak. Dwellings and businesses wrap around the walls of the cavern, connected by a single road that spirals around ever downward. Filling much of the cavern is a central column, from which minerals, ores, and gemstones are excavated and worked into resources that then make their way to the crafters along pulleys and cable cars. Small openings near the top of Stalacforge have been fitted with reflective glass by the bortusken, allowing some light to filter into the upper reaches of the city. These openings also let in water that runs down the walls of the cavern and pools in the depths before eventually flowing into a mountain river that feeds the Cradle Lake. In the damp lower caves the bortusken have cultivated a fungus that serves as their primary source of food.  
As the bortusken culture developed, the structure and layout of Stalacforge caused the development of a classist society. The rich and powerful make their homes in the clean and bright upper levels, whilst the poor and destitute live in squalor in the lower reaches, farming the fungus and fighting over the scraps that flow down from above. The skilled inventors, crafters, and merchants exist somewhere in the middle, kept well off enough to avoid the gutter, but too busy and overworked to rise up the social ladder. This was the status quo until the year 740 of the 4th Age when the lower class attempted a violent uprising. The middle class - caught in the crossfire and fearing for their own lives - unwittingly protected the upper class. The fight was a bloodbath; the simple and often improvised weapons of the revolutionaries were no match for the forged and engineered arsenal wielded against them. The slaughter was so massive that bodies were carried out of the mountains by the subterranean rivers, and were eventually discovered and traced back to Stalacforge by the outside world.  
For most of the Known World, science was solely the domain of mages. Not so with the bortusken. Whilst mages kept any and all arcane secrets for themselves, the creative minds of Stalacforge were free to invent away to their heart’s content. This meant that magical items were not restricted to magical individuals, and any bortusken who could invent or afford to purchase one could harness the power of arcane mana. This freedom and level playing field has given rise to many creations and discoveries that were - until recently - unheard of in the outside world: two of the most important being firearms and skyships. Firearms use a magical explosive powder to fire projectiles that are far more deadly and destructive than arrows. Skyships are powered by arcoal, a substance that burns without smoke, and can be used to fill balloons with hot air and power turbines - both needed for flight.  
Trade and barter was already important in Bortusken culture, but it has become a way of life now that they are in contact with the outside world. Engineers and inventors suddenly found themselves in high demand, and this threatened to upset the balance of power that had existed for centuries. So, the Bortusken upper class began acting as emissaries to the other civilisations, having also developed a taste for the finer things the rest of the world has to offer. Furthermore, the bortusken are experts in geology and mineralogy, and so have an innate knowledge of the value of precious stones and minerals. And so, the bortusken have become adept at engaging in trade missions and brokering deals with the other civilizations of the Known World. In no time at all, their inventions have rapidly spread to almost every corner of the globe.
#### Naming:
Before their introduction to the rest of the Known World, bortusken did not have formal names. Instead, each individual will have their own pet names for their family and friends. When speaking to higher classes than themselves or in formal situations, bortusken must address the individual by their title. 
However, those who now deal with the rest of the world quickly discovered that the other cultures expected to deal with them by name. Adapting quickly, they adopted names with similar styles to those they have dealings with. Therefore, bortusken names closely match those of the people they had contact with first. 
## Bortusken D&D Traits
**Size:** Small (ranging from 3-4 feet tall).
**Speed:** 25 feet.
**Life Span:** Bortusken mature in about half the time of humans. Old age is determined by class, with those in the lower class lucky to live into their 40s, whilst the upper class can live about 200 years on average.

As a Bortusken, you have these special traits.
_**Eye for Deception.**_ You have a knack for knowing when someone is fobbing you off. You have Advantage on insight skill checks.
_**Versatile Traders.**_ The endless haggling in Stalacforge has made you adept at negotiations. You gain proficiency in persuasion and one other skill of your choice.
_**Inventive.**_ You gain proficiency with the artisan’s tools of your choice.   

When designing a bortusken you may increase one of your ability scores by 2 and another by 1.