*The olmetek are a tribal people living in the hostile Razorvine Jungle. They worship animal gods and some practice blood magics.*  

Olmetek are tall, slender humanoids who evolved in the tropical and dangerous Razorvine Jungle. The subcontinent is full of vicious predators, biting insects, and crippling diseases. To survive here, the olmetek have had to adapt and overcome many challenges. The olmetek have become physically well-adapted to their environment. They are tall and lean, have clawed hands and feet, small tusks, and green-grey skin that is often mottled with various flesh tones. Although they have the same number of digits as humans, they have two thumbs and three fingers similar to koalas. This gives them a powerful grip with which to scale trees and cliffs which, when combined with the prevalence of jungle floor predators and frequent floods, has led to Olmetek settlements being constructed mostly off the ground. Dwellings can often be found built up in clusters of thick trees or on ledges and escarpments on cliffs, and are connected by vine bridges or wooden walkways.  
Their culture has developed and thrived with a close affinity to nature. Not content with simply defending themselves from the flora and fauna, the olmetek have themselves become expert hunters. Part of their success lies in the curious way they organise their tribes. Olmetek offspring are taken at birth and raised in their capital of Darkcrag Hollow by the Blood Coven - an all-female group of elders who have all been ritualistically blinded to ‘see better’. The Coven guide every tribe by teaching olmetek children, imparting prophecies, and assigning adolescents back into the tribe that they deem to be the best fit for the child.
## Olmetek Cultures and Naming
The olmetek’s strong belief in destiny tends to make them very self-assured. The prophecies of the Blood Coven may even predict the timing and nature of one’s death, making the individual feel almost invincible in the intervening time. However, the system also leads to great rivalries between some of the more ambitious tribes. It is easily prone to corruption if a coven member holds onto their previous affiliations, which has led to many wars and cycles of power struggles. Even without this temptation, many olmetek are naturally charismatic, their self-assuredness giving them great confidence when practising politics both internally, and with any other race they may encounter.  
Rather than believing in the Immortals or Elemental Lords, the olmetek instead look to nature and have assembled a pantheon of animal gods as their divine protectors. Each tribe tends to hold one beast sacred above all others and draws their culture and practices from the animal’s behaviour. They also favour their chosen god’s ‘children’, with some tribes taming the beasts as pets and others hunting them in annual rituals. It is not uncommon for the hides or furs or feathers of these animals to be used to decorate homes, clothing, armour, and weapons. Warriors may also wear warpaint designed to mimic the appearance or camouflage patterns of beasts. The strong ties the olmetek form with their tribe, the kill-or-be-killed nature of their home, and their devotion to one god above all others can easily lead to animosity between tribes.  
The olmetek are one of the only races to practice blood magic on a large scale. Blood is a potent source of mana, but most of the other mortal races see its use in spellcraft as distasteful at best, and illegal at worst. But, the Olmetek show no such qualms. In some tribes, the blood is simply acquired from slain beasts, often the ‘children’ of their patron god. But ritual sacrifices of their own species are also not uncommon, involving the captured members of rival tribes, or tributes from conquered ones for use in these rituals. A few tribes even see the role of sacrifice as an honour, and gladly give their lives to appease their god and bring their brethren good fortune.
#### Naming:
When olmetek infants arrive in Darkcrag Hollow they do so without a name. A name is gained once their individual behaviours and traits set them apart from the others, whilst some receive names specifically from visions and prophecies seen by the Blood Coven. A name is therefore used to describe who an olmetek is destined to become or embody, and so takes forms such as Mankiller, Wise Leader, Fierce Carnotaur, and Dies on Toilet when translated into the common tongue.
## Olmetek D&D Traits
**Size:** Medium (ranging from 5-7 feet tall).
**Speed:** 30 feet.
**Life Span:** Olmetek have lifespans equivalent to humans, though the harsh jungle makes it much harder to reach old age.

As an Olmetek, you have these special traits.
_**Expert Climber**_. Because of your claws, you have a climbing speed of 20 feet. In addition, your claws are natural weapons, which you can use to make Unarmed Strikes. Once per turn when you deal damage with your Unarmed Strike to a target, you can increase the damage to that target by an amount equal to your Proficiency Bonus.  
_**Born Hunter.**_ Growing up in a deadly jungle has taught you how to see without being seen. You have proficiency in the Perception and Stealth skills.  
_**Blood Magic.**_ You can innately channel minor magic by drawing small amounts of your own blood; you know one Transmutation cantrip. Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spellcasting ability for any Spell you cast with this trait (choose the ability when you select the Species).

When designing an olmetek you may increase one of your ability scores by 2 and another by 1.