*Eastirons Strait. Snowfall - year 2 - 5th Age* 
## Abridged Session Notes

## NPCs Met
## Character Development
## Loot Acquired
## Links
[Planning doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GPlJfelYTVnpEY3HqYx_-DaYTGbaiq7qUtzIKz5Xn6U/edit?usp=drive_link)

### Old Prose
One bright spring morning in Twynburh, each member of the party received an invitation from ﻿Arbor﻿ - requesting that they join him for breakfast in the Sage & Flagon inn. One by one they arrived at the bright and busy metropolitan establishment, finding ﻿Arbor﻿ already posted on a secluded table. He bought the party food and drink, and then explained to them that he had found himself a purpose within the city. He planned to stay and study and the Grand Sanctum to better learn about his [[Apothecaries|healing magic]] abilities. With a brief farewell, he headed out into the city and left the party to mull over this news.

Following this, ﻿[[Mela Uak]]﻿ then announced he had some news as well. He had used his skills in espionage to gain information on his quarry - ﻿Captain Claggar Pertovich﻿. The man was supposedly operating as a mercenary near ﻿[[Mela Uak]]﻿'s old home, having previously been in the region as the head of an occupation force that subjugated the Tar Tribe. ﻿[[Mela Uak]]﻿ indicated that he had been planning, with his brother, to head back home to Razorvine Jungle. There he would return the spear recovered from the museum to his people and help free them. He extended an invitation to the party, though he made it clear he would not expect any of them to come. ﻿[[Ballthasar]]﻿ and ﻿[[Erathis Ashguard|Erathis]]﻿ indicated that they would join him with his quest.

At that moment, a towering kal krom approached the table the party were sitting at. He introduced himself as ﻿Tru Ko Burk﻿ and appeared to be some kind of warrior - brandishing a massive great axe across his back. His manner was cheerful and bright, and he brazenly explained that he couldn't help but overhear the party's quest. He requested permission to join them and, though no one objected, more than a few present were somewhat suspicious of the timing of this request.

Nevertheless, the party were set on their new plan. ﻿[[Erathis Ashguard|Erathis]]﻿ used his telepathic abilities to make contact with ﻿[[Ephemeridae Bellflower|Ephemeridae]]﻿ and let her know of their imminent departure. She indicated that she was not yet done in the city but would catch them up when able. He also attempted to inform ﻿[[Kaspar Elderclaw|Kaspar]]﻿ but had no response back.

The party made their way through the bustling streets and warm spring air, before heading out of the city walls and down to the ﻿Docklands﻿. They went and spoke to the harbourmaster in the custom's house and were given directions to a berthed ship that might be able to transport them to Razorvine Jungle. Upon reaching the indicated spot on one of the piers, the party found a modest-looking brigantine-style ship called the Fontaine. They met with the ship's owner - a middle-aged old salt named ﻿Captain Emanuel﻿ - and were able to barter passage. The captain seemed willing to make a detour to a port along the northern coast of the jungle called Fort Ardismouth. ﻿[[Mela Uak]]﻿ was aware that this was the settlement that the Northern Kingdom had built during their attempted conquest of the region, and that ﻿Captain Claggar Pertovich﻿ had been sighted there. ﻿Captain Emanuel﻿ indicated that his crew would load some extra supplies that they could sell to the fort. He also offered to carry the party there with no charge. He informed the party that they would sail with the tide in approximately two hours, and so if they had any final errands to run in the city, now was the time.

It was at this moment that ﻿[[Thrakor]]﻿ rather sheepishly admitted he would not be joining the party for their journey south. He still had business with the Thieve's Guild that he wanted to follow up on, and so he bid them farewell. As he went to walk off back up to the city, ﻿[[Ballthasar]]﻿ tripped him up one final time with his grease spell - as a parting gift.

﻿[[Erathis Ashguard|Erathis]]﻿ and ﻿[[Mela Uak]]﻿ headed back into the city to find an alchemical shop. They located a likely establishment within the ﻿Artisan's District﻿ and purchased potions from a young, green-haired woman named Zanna. The pair were quite taken with the shopkeeper's bubbly energy.
﻿
﻿[[Ballthasar]]﻿ also returned to the city briefly and purchased a jet gemstone from a jeweller.

Upon meeting back up with ﻿Tru Ko Burk﻿ at the pier in the ﻿Docklands﻿, the party suddenly became aware of a commotion nearby. Many sailors and fishermen were shouting about a shark sighting. Sure enough, the party quickly spotted a large dorsal fin slicing through the water, coming straight for them. Readying themselves, they were surprised when the shark breached out of the water and let off a bright glowing light. They were equally surprised when the soaking wet, ginger-haired ﻿[[Kaspar Elderclaw|Kaspar]]﻿ landed on the pier in front of them. A brief reunion was had before ﻿Captain Emanuel﻿ invited everyone onto the ship. A short while later, the crew cast off from the pier and the captain skillfully navigated the ship out of the busy harbour. Before the day was out, the party found themselves admiring the sunset from the expansive estuary that lead out to the open sea.

The days aboard the Fontaine rolled on as the ship carved its way through the waves. Initially, both ﻿[[Erathis Ashguard|Erathis]]﻿ and ﻿[[Mela Uak]]﻿ found themselves feeling seasick as the ship reached less sheltered waters. However, ﻿Tru Ko Burk﻿ was quick to use some [[Apothecaries|healing magic]] on the pair, relieving them of their motion-induced nausea. This began to warm the party to the newcomer.

The ship continued to sail parallel with the eastern coast of Norcernwere, and the party passed the time mostly by watching the sailors work and the passage of the changing terrain along the horizon. The rolling hills, woods, and farmlands of Greenhart gradually became more steep and rocky, and the fields eventually gave way to moorland. On the third morning, the western horizon was filled with mountains, but by the end of the day, these were obscured by thick fog. ﻿Captain Emanuel﻿ changed course to keep the ship out of the mists, which he informed the party came from the swamplands known as the Myre.

Part way through the trip, ﻿[[Erathis Ashguard|Erathis]]﻿ and ﻿[[Kaspar Elderclaw|Kaspar]]﻿ found themselves alone near the bow of the ship. ﻿[[Erathis Ashguard|Erathis]]﻿ was occupied with one of his many books and ﻿[[Kaspar Elderclaw|Kaspar]]﻿ was gazing out to sea, keeping a weather eye for any ocean fauna. Snapping his book shut suddenly, ﻿[[Erathis Ashguard|Erathis]]﻿ confessed to ﻿[[Kaspar Elderclaw|Kaspar]]﻿ that his disguise during their infiltration into ﻿Meadenhill Fort﻿ was based on his time working for [[the Inquisition]]. He explained that before the war he had been sent on an assignment with [[Inquisitor Alabastia]], but he was disgusted by her lust for power and the damage it caused. He had abandoned the order, but his time as an Inquisitor still weighed heavily on him. This had in part been the reason for his pensive mood after their victory in securing the fort with the soldiers of the [[Crossroads]].

﻿[[Kaspar Elderclaw|Kaspar]]﻿ then opened up about difficulties he had been having with his beast forms. He had not joined the party in the city for fear of hurting others around him, and so had ventured into the nearby forests on a soul-searching expedition. He felt more balanced now, but also agreed the last time they had been together he too had been strained by the events in the [[Crossroads]]. Evidently, they both had inner monsters that they were grappling with at the time.

Days turned to weeks, and as the red stone peaks of the mountainous southern peninsula of Norcernwere faded into the distance, the Fontaine journeyed onwards into the Eastirons Strait. The temperature each day began to rise as the ship continued southward, though the sea breeze meant that the party weren't too uncomfortable so long as they kept to the shade during the middle of the day.

During this time, for reasons known only to himself, ﻿[[Ballthasar]]﻿ was caught below decks attempting to sabotage the ship. After a brief trial, the captain ordered that he be locked in the brig until they arrived at Fort Ardismouth.

One evening, with the ship firmly in open sea, ﻿[[Erathis Ashguard|Erathis]]﻿ noticed that the crew were becoming agitated. He alerted the party and quickly deduced that the unease was centred on a ship that had been sighted on the western horizon. With the distance closing, the party spotted that the ship was flying a white flag with a grey fort tower - the flag of the Refugean Navy. Upon questioning ﻿Captain Emanuel﻿, it came to light that the crew of the Fontaine regularly avoided customs checks in order to make better profits. If the authorities searched the ship and found their undeclared goods, the passengers and crew would likely be arrested for smuggling. Whilst both the party and the captain had reservations about openly engaging the approaching vessel - and not just because it was a much larger ship - they also agreed that they would like to avoid capture at all costs.

With that decided, the party sprung to action to assist the crew with managing the ship. ﻿[[Erathis Ashguard|Erathis]]﻿ climbed the mast to provide lookout, ﻿[[Mela Uak]]﻿ and ﻿Tru Ko Burk﻿ helped man the cannons, and ﻿[[Kaspar Elderclaw|Kaspar]]﻿ took to the rigging to assist with the sails. Together, they worked with the crew to turn south and make full sail, allowing the smaller and more agile Fontaine to quickly outrun the navy frigate. As the tense minutes dragged on, the sky began to grow darker as night approached. With the other vessel disappearing into the gloomy horizon, ﻿Captain Emanuel﻿ eventually called for everyone to stand down. He assured the party that they would assuredly lose the navy ship during the night. He also informed them that this detour would not cost them much time and that they would soon arrive at their destination.

A hot midday sun beat down onto the Fontaine as it approached the wharf. The crew busied themselves with docking preparations, knowing that the sooner they could secure the ship, the sooner they would be able to find some shade or take a dip in the calm waters of the bay. To the left and right of the ship, dense rainforest lined the edge of the beaches. The lush trees swayed gently in the humid sea wind. From within, a myriad of animal and bird calls could be heard echoing across the water. The thick canopy blocked out much of the bright sunlight, hiding whatever lurked within the forest from view. In the centre of the bay - ahead of the ship - the trees were significantly less dense, and a graveyard of stumps showed the efforts of a significant deforestation campaign. Some areas were completely barren, leaving only a crumbling soil of deep brown earth. However, some patches were filled with dense undergrowth that foreshadowed nature’s fight to reclaim the land. A short distance inland, the terrain climbed gently before rising sharply to form rocky cliffs, which were still crowned with dense forests that had managed to escape the devastation below. Directly to the south, there were areas of farmland. Fields of grain and vegetables were mosaiced up the gentle slopes, with several windmills holding vigil over the crops. Though the terraforming was obvious to the entire party, one amongst them could recall a time when the entire bay was untouched by humans. To ﻿[[Mela Uak]]﻿, this scene began to make clear the difficulties felt by his people, whose homeland lay not too far from these shores.

As the ship was being moored to the wharf, the clanging of a bell could be heard from one of the buildings on the shore. Though a return to civilisation was welcome, these three small buildings were a far cry from the docks at Twynburh. The structures were still familiar, though - built in the typical Northern Kingdom design. They appeared to be workshops and storage spaces for small boats and fishing supplies.

As the party stepped out onto the dock, their sea-legs feeling uneasy against the unmoving timber, they begin to see a plethora of settlers making their way down the paths and beaches that led to the dock. Some came with carts or beasts of burden, and all seemed to have dropped whatever they were doing to be here. Before long the wharf was alive with activity as the Fontaine offloaded its cargo to the delight of the settlers. Not wanting to get in the way, the party all began to tread along the dock towards the white sandy beaches that, for some of them, marked their first steps on the continent of Elencern.