## Darrius and the Rogues
An adventuring group including Darrius Silversong, Ga Nuna, Tutel, and Amalie. They have been hired by Shanair Avento as the competative rivals to the main party who were hired by Dormain Avento. Both groups are to send the Aventos interesting items from Quintessa as part of a competition between the two Thieves Guild leaders.
## Arcane Meteorite
Becomes visible during the journey to Quintessa.
Will fall into the Bloodtree Forest, causing several factions to try and claim it including demons and a Null Warrior. 
## Elements fallen from grace in Quintessa
An outcast group of [[antanai]] still revere the elements, but the majority of their civilisation has become enamoured with arcane magic - and [[Demon Hunters|warlock]] magic in some cases. High Haven now acts as a beacon of elemental power, and this may call to [[Mela Uak]].
## Ballthasar has taken over a fortress in the Holds of Vultash
His work in releasing Belphegor the Blight was rewarded by ascension to godhood. He has taken a fortress in the Holds of Vultash as his home, and is extending his influence over the undead of the Known World. This includes the Ruins of Djurnoth. If the party destroy undead here, a maggot wreathed avatar of Ballthasar will appear and mock them. Involve lots of Dex saves for slipperiness. 
## Dissolution of the Northern Kingdom
Under a new name, Inquisitor Alabastia has been controlling the government of the Northern Kingdom and the Order of the Iron Rose from the shadows. The Iron Rose have been taking key forts around Greenhart in preparation. The sky pirates' attacks on the [[kal krom]] cause an uprising that results in a battle near Avonhead. King Gren is killed in the battle, likely murdered by spies. Alabastia uses the vacuum and unrest to push the Lords into agreeing to split the provinces of the Kingdom - as the country is sick of trying to make things work. 
## Null Warriors
Mysterious armoured entities that seem to originate from the void but are not in league with demons. They are nonetheless hostile to all creatures and usually appear at sites of powerful magic that they will attempt to guard - though for what purpose remains a mystery. They do not seem to make any vocal noises, nor do they appear to breathe. Attempts to communicate, including via telepathically, are ineffective - as if the armour is hollow and merely being animated. Emerging from shadowy clouds of nothingness, their form is of a large, fully plated, humanoid warrior and they wield huge and cruel-looking weapons. Their equipment is made from an oily-looking iridescent metal that is highly resistant to damage. However, attacks to what few gaps and joints exist in their armour do prove effective. When slain, whatever is inside or animating the armour vanishes, with some inky black smoke leaking from their armour plates as they fall to the ground. The metal of their weapons and armour immediately turns a matt grey iron colour, and rapidly rusts and breaks down as if being attacked by strong acid. Within minutes, all trace of their existence is gone and, unlike demons, they do not leave scars in the fabric of the material plane.