## Who are they
The cult is considered to be a band of doomsayers who believe the end of the world is inevitable and that the pursuits of mortals are all pointless endeavours.
## Organisation
The structure and formation of the cult is shrouded in mystery. Few take their existence seriously, and little research has been carried out on their organisation. Those in the cult care not for order and so are even more unlikely to ask questions. What we do know is that evidence of the cult’s existence has been found all across the Known World and in every pocket of civilization. Their general goal seems to be to bring about the end of the world which they hold as a sacred event. Order, and the attempts of mortals to rationalise and make sense of the world are considered pointless. Those uninitiated who seek to better their lives are regarded as sheep - following some predefined plan of those in charge who the cult insists secretly know ‘the Truth’ and aim to keep people blind to it. Wherever the cult meets, they leave behind strange and incomprehensible graffiti and markings scrawled onto the walls, floors, and ceilings. Objects of value and other detritus are left in a large circle painted on the ground. It is unclear whether the cult is attempting to summon something and - if they are - whether they have ever been successful. When the cultists become violent they take to the streets of towns and cities at night hooded and cloaked, falling upon unwary bystanders with poisoned blades. These attacks have grown more recent and widespread since the dawn of the 5th Age, and it is rumoured that the cult’s graffiti is now legible to those few who are able to read dark speech - the language of demons. 