## Who are they:
An organised crime syndicate operating across the Known World, but headquartered in Twynburh. The guild involves itself in smuggling, burglary and theft, loan sharking, extortion, and intimidation. In Twynburh they operate from an underground base, using the tunnels and cisterns of the city’s sewage system to move around the city unseen. To maintain a presence above ground, the guild has established a front - posing as waste men and sewage workers. So long as they keep shit out of the streets, the city officials have yet to ask questions. This also provides cover for accessing the cisterns and underground waterways.  
## Organisation:
At the head of the guild is the Avento crime family. Externally the family involves itself in philanthropic endeavours and maintains the city’s sewage system. They are well connected, either by influence or fraud and extortion. They use these connections to gain favours or operate without interference. Internally they run a brutal but efficient operation, keeping the cogs of the guild as airtight as possible whilst nurturing as much plausible deniability as they can muster. It is unclear whether the city officials or the government of the Northern Kingdom are aware of the guild, under their thumb, or just allow them to exist. The daily operation of the guild is managed by carefully selected lieutenants, each of whom operates a specific area of the world. Beyond this, the guild is full of every kind of petty criminal, scoundrel, and swine imaginable. The general population of the guild is given free will to act as they see fit, and the lieutenants are then able to call upon the services of those specialised to carry out certain tasks or missions. As a result, most major settlements contain a group of guild members who are willing to help guide arriving members, point them in the direction of targets or safe zones, and keep them out of trouble with the local authorities. So long as these petty activities do not complete with the goals of the Avento family, each member is allowed to operate their own cons, burglaries, and even murders. Those who step out of line meet a swift end, if not from their lieutenant then from their fellow members who don’t want to see a good thing spoiled.  
## Known Members
Dormian Avento
Shanair Avento
## Standard D&D Background:
Most know Thieves’ Cant and are proficient with the Forgery kit.